# Data Dictionary for Collection: ProcedureCustomDetails
## Fields
| Field Name | Data Type | Description |
|------------|-----------|-------------|
| CustomDetails | list | |
| OfficeId | str | |
| document_id | str | |

## Example Document
```json
{'CustomDetails': [{'VideoLink': 'dentistry/decay/root_canal', 'Codes': ['D3310', 'D3320', 'D3330', 'D3331', 'D3346', 'D3347', 'D3348'], 'Text': '<p>Just saying the words &ldquo;root canal&rdquo; can be scary for some people. They conjure up images of a painful dental intervention. However, root canals are actually meant to save your tooth and prevent it from being extracted.</p> <p>When the pulp of a tooth (the soft interior part consisting of nerves, connective tissue and blood vessels) becomes infected and inflamed, an endodontist will perform a root canal, which is designed specifically to eliminate the infection in your root and to prevent it from getting reinfected. During the procedure the endodontist will remove the infected pulp from the tooth, clean it out, disinfect it and then refill and seal it. The procedure saves the tooth because a fully developed tooth doesn&rsquo;t need the interior pulp to survive. It can survive because the surrounding tissues continue to nourish it.</p> <p><strong>How does a root get infected?</strong></p> <p>Bacteria is the main cause of any tooth infection. Bacteria usually gets into a tooth from a crack, a chip or through deep decay. It can also be the result of trauma to the tooth.</p> <p>Today&rsquo;s root canals are done fairly quickly - and are nearly painless due to the number of sedation and/or pain killing options available. They are very effective, though in eliminating infections and saving teeth.</p> <p>The ultimate goal of a root canal is to save your natural tooth. Having a tooth in place is always best because:</p> <ul> <li>It prevents the other teeth from shifting and causing bite problems</li> <li>It prevents the other teeth from wearing and straining</li> <li>It prevents bone loss</li> <li>It preserves the natural appearance of your jawline and mouth</li> </ul> <p>Usually a root canal takes two visits - the first is to perform the root canal and the second is to remove the temporary filling and install the permanent crown.</p> <p>Root canals are usually successful however, as with any procedure there is the potential that your tooth won&rsquo;t heal as expected. Sometimes not all of the tiny, narrow, curved canals are treated and some of the infection remains. Other times, a delay in the placement of the final crown may cause bacteria to re-enter the canal. And occasionally a new problem is the culprit - bacteria introduced through a new crack in the tooth or crown or a filling. Should this happen then you might need either a retreatment or a root end treatment.&nbsp;</p>', 'Name': 'Root Canal', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D2960', 'D2961', 'D2962', 'D2740.2'], 'Text': '<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1laa5u7s7v53hvj/AAAR0or9EPeZOg_lPoU0sg6Oa?dl=0&preview=Jones_Smiles-Veneer_Sheet-051120.pdf" target="_blank">Veneer Sheet</a>', 'Name': 'Veneer', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': 'dentistry/decay/inlay_onlay', 'Codes': ['D2510', 'D2520', 'D2530', 'D2610', 'D2620', 'D2630', 'D2650', 'D2651', 'D2652'], 'Text': '<p>An inlay is another type of filling that your dentist can use to fill a decayed or damaged tooth. It is made of a pre-molded filling that the dentist fits into the grooves of a tooth and which doesn&rsquo;t go over the cusps.&nbsp;</p> <p>To create an inlay, your dentist will first have to clean out the decayed matter from the tooth. An impression is then made of the tooth and sent to a lab where the inlay will be created from either porcelain, gold, silver or a composite resin. The molded inlay will then be fitted into the cavity in your tooth and cemented into place once the proper placement is achieved.&nbsp;</p> <p><strong>Inlays are usually recommended if:</strong></p> <ul> <li>The damage to your tooth doesn&rsquo;t extend to the cusp</li> <li>The required filling is large enough that it could weaken the remaining structure</li> <li>The dentist is unable to remove enough tooth material to insert a crown</li> </ul> <p>Inlays are quite durable and tend to last longer than regular fillings. They also look far more natural and blend in better with your existing teeth - especially true of porcelain and composite resin inlays.</p> <p>The materials used to create inlays are the same as those used for fillings - gold, silver (amalgam), composite resin and porcelain. Gold and porcelain remain the most durable but they are also the most expensive, while silver is a durable option but very visible due to its dark color. Composite resin can be perfectly matched to the color of your teeth but can wear down in time.</p>', 'Name': 'Inlay', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': 'dentistry/missing_teeth/bridge', 'Codes': ['D6194', 'D6710', 'D6720', 'D6721', 'D6722', 'D6740', 'D6750', 'D6751', 'D6752', 'D6780', 'D6781', 'D6782', 'D6783', 'D6790', 'D6791', 'D6792', 'D6793', 'D6794', 'D6205', 'D6210', 'D6211', 'D6212', 'D6214', 'D6240', 'D6241', 'D6242', 'D6245', 'D6250', 'D6251', 'D6252', 'D6253'], 'Text': '', 'Name': 'Bridge', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': 'ortho/problems/overview', 'Codes': ['D8010', 'D8020', 'D8030', 'D8040', 'D8050', 'D8060', 'D8070', 'D8080', 'D8090'], 'Text': '<p>Orthodontic treatment aims to correct the alignment and placement of the jaw and teeth. The focus of orthodontics is to address the following:</p> <ul> <li>Straighten crooked teeth</li> <li>Lessen or eliminate an overbite - when the upper front teeth are too far out over the lower teeth</li> <li>Correct an underbite - where either the upper teeth are too far back or the lower jaw is too far forward</li> <li>Correct a crossbite - when the front teeth don&rsquo;t come down slightly in front of the lower teeth when the jaw is closed normally</li> <li>Open bite - when there is space between the biting surfaces of the front or back teeth when the jaw is closed</li> <li>Misplaced midline - when the center of your upper and lower teeth do not meet in the middle</li> <li>Spacing - closing gaps or spaces between the teeth</li> <li>Crowding - when there are too many teeth along the dental ridge</li> </ul> <p>When such issues as described above are not addressed they can lead to extra stress on the chewing muscles, which in turn lead to headaches, TMJ syndrome and to neck, shoulder and back pain. Additionally, crooked teeth are harder to clean and maintain, which puts those with uncorrected teeth placement issues at a higher risk of tooth loss from decay and gum disease.</p> <p>Orthodontics will give you a healthier mouth and a better smile.</p> <p><strong>Preventive orthodontics</strong></p> <p>Often dentists will recommend having children seen by an orthodontist because they can already see that there could be an issue as they get older. Orthodontists can properly evaluate and determine whether any preventive treatments are necessary to avoid major orthodontic work later on.</p> <p>Many issues with the jaw and teeth are easily corrected early on through prevention such as assisting in the cessation of bad habits including thumb or finger sucking, mouth breathing, and poor dental hygiene. Preventive orthodontics can also:</p> <ul> <li>Identify and prevent subtle problems with jaw growth and emerging teeth</li> <li>Guide permanent teeth into a more favorable position</li> <li>Improve the way the lips meet</li> </ul> <p>The earlier a potential problem is detected the easier it is to correct. So, even though your child&rsquo;s teeth might look straight only an orthodontist can properly evaluate whether there is an underlying issue that you cannot see as yet. Sometimes all the orthodontist will do is wait and see whether the issue materializes, and other times, if it is serious enough, they will intervene early.</p> <p><strong>Limited orthodontic treatment</strong></p> <p>As its name implies, limited orthodontic treatment targets only a limited amount of area in the mouth. Using a number of bite alignment treatment plans, an orthodontist might need to address just one small section of the mouth, such as the front upper teeth or just the lower back teeth. Usually limited treatment plans are to address easily fixable issues including overcrowding, reducing large gaps and/or issues that affect the overall bite. Usually limited treatment plans work quickly and last between three-to-eight months.</p>', 'Name': 'Orthodontic Treatment', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D2140', 'D2150', 'D2160', 'D2161', 'D2330', 'D2331', 'D2332', 'D2335', 'D2391', 'D2392', 'D2393', 'D2394', 'D2410', 'D2420', 'D2430', '2330', '2331', '2332', '2335', '2390', '2391', '2392', '2394'], 'Text': '<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1laa5u7s7v53hvj/AAAR0or9EPeZOg_lPoU0sg6Oa?dl=0&preview=ToothWear.pdf" target="_blank">Tooth Wear</a>', 'Name': 'Filling', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D1110', 'D1120', 'D4355', 'D4910'], 'Text': '<p>According to the Academy of General Dentistry (AGD), a professional dental cleaning at least twice a year can lead to improved oral health and improved overall health. A professional dental cleaning is meant to reinforce regular at home oral care and will target those areas that are missed or overlooked by the patient. Regular cleanings remove plaque and tartar build-up before they become issues and can flag potential problems early on and offer corrective steps to prevent more serious conditions from arising.</p> <p>A lot of people don&rsquo;t like going to the dentist for teeth cleaning because they are afraid of the discomfort that it can cause. However, if you take regular care of your teeth, then that discomfort is minimized. And should you prefer, you can ask your dentist or hygienist to use a topical numbing cream before cleaning your teeth so that you feel nothing at all.</p> <p>During a regular teeth cleaning visit to your dentist, not only will you leave with your teeth feeling and looking great, but you will also get any diagnostic and preventive services required including:</p> <ul> <li>Reviewing and updating your medical history</li> <li>Screening for oral cancers</li> <li>Evaluating your gums</li> <li>Checking your bite</li> <li>Taking X-rays to detect any decay early on</li> <li>Referring you to specialists if needed</li> </ul> <p>A good teeth cleaning will include:</p> <ul> <li>The removal of plaque and tartar, even below the gum line</li> <li>Stain removal</li> <li>The application of fluoride</li> <li>Cleaning and adjusting dentures or partials</li> <li>Setting up appointments for fillings or crowns if needed</li> </ul> <p>If your dentist sees that your teeth are not being well cared for, they might also give you tips on how to brush and floss, what foods contribute to good overall bone health and they will answer any questions or concerns you might have.</p> <p>Visiting your dentist twice a year should definitely be on your list of must-dos.</p>', 'Name': 'Teeth Cleaning', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': 'dentistry/implants/denture', 'Codes': ['D5130', 'D5140'], 'Text': '<p>Dentures are artificial teeth that you can remove easily from your mouth. They are meant as a replacement for missing teeth and/or surrounding tissues.</p> <p>Although many people think that dentures only refer to complete replacements where all of a person&rsquo;s natural teeth are missing, partial dentures are available for those who still have some of their natural teeth.&nbsp;</p> <p><strong>Denture materials</strong></p> <p>Dentures can be made from several types of material including acrylic resin, porcelain and metal.</p> <p>Acrylic resin is currently the most in-demand form of dentures because it is lightweight, can be perfectly moulded to fit the space required and can be dyed to match the surrounding teeth. It is also the least expensive option. On the down side, they tend to wear out faster than other options and, overtime, the bite can change through use. They are also slightly bulkier and easier to break. Usually, acrylic dentures will need replacing within five years or so. With proper care and maintenance, you can extend the life of acrylic dentures, however, if you are not vigilant with oral hygiene they can contribute to a gum infection.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p> <p>Porcelain dentures are the most durable kind available but are quite a bit more expensive. The translucent quality of porcelain gives the teeth a more natural look. The porcelain is put through a very high, intense heating process to mould them properly, and as a consequence they are tough. They are most popular with full dentures. However, they are not recommended for partials because they wear down the surrounding teeth.</p> <p>Partial metal dentures have a metal base and plastic, acrylic or composite teeth. These dentures tend to be smaller than normal, making them more adaptable and comfortable for patients. They do cost up to 75% more than regular acrylic dentures due to their labor-intensive manufacturing process, but they are worth it for people who want a natural appearance for their dentures and a discreet profile.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p> <p><strong>Flexible dentures</strong></p> <p>Flexible dentures are exactly what their name implies - they flex to fit the patient&rsquo;s gum. Unlike regular dentures, which are rigid and can cause discomfort to patients until they grow accustomed to the feel of them in their mouth, flexible dentures contour to the patient&rsquo;s natural gum line. They eliminate the need for adhesive or metal clasps to hold them in place and they eliminate the irritation and soreness associated with regular dentures. Since they are clear, they also allow the patient&rsquo;s natural gum color to show through and they are quicker to make. They are perfect for patients who have been missing teeth for a long time, who aren&rsquo;t able to open their mouths wide and for those who are allergic to resin.&nbsp;</p> <p><strong>Partials</strong></p> <p>Partials come in two forms: fixed and removable. Your existing teeth will determine what type is best suited for you.</p> <p>Fixed partials are also known as a dental implant bridge. They are permanently fixed to your jaw bone under your gum either through a dental crown or through an implant.</p> <p>A removable partial, or removable dental bridge, sits in the gap between two healthy teeth. They have a gum-colored plastic base and use a metal framework to hold them in place.</p> <p>Partial dentures are very convenient for several reasons including:</p> <ul> <li>Making it easier to speak and chew</li> <li>Maintaining the shape of your face</li> <li>Preventing teeth from moving in your mouth due to gaps</li> <li>Decreasing the potential for gum disease</li> </ul> <p><strong>Same Day Dentures</strong></p> <p>Same day dentures are what you can request on the same day as your dental extraction. However, to receive same day dentures, you will need to visit your dentist a few times in order to prepare by:</p> <ul> <li>Having impressions made of your teeth and jaw</li> <li>Selecting the color you want for your teeth</li> </ul> <p>On the day of your tooth/teeth extraction, you will then try on the dentures for fit and comfort. Same day dentures are great because they never let you be without teeth, they don&rsquo;t require any change in your diet to allow time for healing and they will actually help protect your gums after the extraction so that it heals quicker.</p> <p>However, same day dentures are costlier than regular dentures and might require several adjustments and even a potential remake as the gums heal and shrink. Same day dentures are also not for everyone and only your dentist will be able to evaluate whether you are a good candidate for this option or not.</p>', 'Name': 'Dentures', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': 'dentistry/decay/extraction', 'Codes': ['D7111', 'D7140', 'D7210', 'D7220', 'D7230', 'D7240', 'D7241'], 'Text': '<p>Tooth extractions are the removal of a tooth from the jaw bone and are performed by dentists as outpatient procedures.</p> <p>There are many reasons for why a tooth extraction might be necessary:</p> <ul> <li>A tooth is blocking other teeth from coming in properly - this kind of extraction would be part of an orthodontic plan and would involve strategically removing healthy teeth to allow for better placement of the remaining teeth.</li> <li>Removing a tooth due to a lack of space - this is commonly done with wisdom teeth, which tend to come in later in life when there may not be sufficient room left along the dental ridge.</li> <li>A tooth is impacted or infected - sometimes teeth come in sideways or facing the wrong direction - this can cause all types of issues in the mouth and those teeth are better removed; the same is true for an infected tooth that hasn&rsquo;t erupted yet.</li> <li>A tooth is damaged or decayed - if a tooth cannot be saved with a filling, a crown or a root canal, sometimes the only alternative remaining is to extract it for the health of the jaw and surrounding tissue.</li> <li>Illness - some people receiving radiation or chemotherapy or who are taking cancer-fighting drugs can develop infections in their teeth, which require extractions.</li> </ul> <p>During your tooth extraction your dentist will give a local anesthetic and, if necessary, a sedative to help with anxiety. The most you will feel during the procedure is the dentist tugging on your tooth. If the tooth is impacted, then it might have to be broken into pieces before it is removed.</p> <p><strong>There are two basic categories of extracting teeth:</strong></p> <ul> <li>Simple: As the name implies, it is a simple procedure involving the extraction of a tooth that is visible. These extractions can be done by regular dentists using local anesthesia.</li> <li>Surgical: Surgical extractions are more complicated because the tooth being removed cannot be seen in the mouth. An oral surgeon needs to perform this extraction. The process might involve breaking the tooth and removing it in pieces. Depending on the complexity of the extraction you might be given general anesthesia for this procedure.</li> </ul> <p>After an extraction be sure to follow your dentist&rsquo;s care instructions carefully. Refrain from eating hard foods until the discomfort and swelling in your mouth are gone. Take medication to reduce inflammation and be sure to watch for signs of infection after the wound has healed. With proper oral hygiene and care a tooth extraction will heal quickly and painlessly.</p>', 'Name': 'Tooth Extraction', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': 'dentistry/decay/crown', 'Codes': ['D2390', 'D2710', 'D2712', 'D2720', 'D2721', 'D2722', 'D2740', 'D2750', 'D2751', 'D2752', 'D2780', 'D2781', 'D2782', 'D2783', 'D2790', 'D2791', 'D2792', 'D2794', 'D6058', 'D6059', 'D6060', 'D6061', 'D6062', 'D6063', 'D6064', 'D6065', 'D6066', 'D6067', 'D6094', 'D6194'], 'Text': '<p>Dental crowns are a type of &ldquo;cap&rdquo; used to cover an existing tooth or dental implant. Crowns are permanent prosthetics that are cemented into place and can only be removed by your dentist once installed.</p> <p>Crowns have several purposes:</p> <ul> <li>They can help strengthen a cracked or weakened tooth</li> <li>They can improve the alignment in your mouth</li> <li>They can cover/protect a root canal</li> <li>They improve your smile</li> <li>They can cover a tooth with a cavity that is too big to fill</li> </ul> <p><strong>How are they made and installed?</strong></p> <p>Although your dentist might place a temporary crown on your tooth, it usually takes two visits to have a permanent crown installed due to the number of steps involved.</p> <ol> <li>Your dentist needs to prepare the tooth or teeth on which the crown will be placed. To ensure the best fit, your dentist might reduce the size of your tooth. If necessary, they will also remove any decay and install a post to build up the strength of the tooth.</li> <li>Next an impression is made of the tooth - this is done either with a mold or digitally.</li> <li>A temporary crown is placed on your tooth until the custom crown arrives.</li> <li>Once the permanent crown is ready, your dentist will place it in position and adjust it so that you are comfortable with how it feels and looks. When your are satisfied with its placement, only then will it be cemented into place.</li> </ol> <p><strong>Available dental crowns</strong></p> <p>Four types of material are used to create crowns:</p> <ol> <li>Base metal alloys - very strong material made using non-noble metals; highly resistant to corrosion and requires the least amount of healthy tooth to be removed before filling. Usually used for molars or for those who have an exceptionally strong bite and/or who grind their teeth. Not usually used for front tooth restoration.&nbsp;</li> <li>Gold alloys - made from gold, copper and other metals, it is very strong, sticks well to teeth, won&rsquo;t fracture and won&rsquo;t wear down the natural tooth.</li> <li>Porcelain-fused to metal - a very durable option because it is connected to metal, works well for front teeth when you need a stronger crown, but also require a natural appearance for your smile.</li> <li>Ceramic - the best option for front teeth restoration, made from porcelain and popular due to its natural look, however, not as durable as the other options.</li> </ol> <p>The type of crown chosen for your treatment plan will depend on whether it is a front tooth or molar that needs crowning, the position of the gum tissue, how visible the tooth is when you smile and your preference.</p>', 'Name': 'Dental Crowns', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D4210', 'D4211', 'D4212'], 'Text': '<p>If you have periodontitis and it is far enough advanced to be a constant source of irritation to you, then your dentist might refer to a periodontist to undergo gum surgery. Sometimes, gum disease has progressed to the point where at-home maintenance and regular check-ups with your dentist are no longer enough and more invasive forms of intervention are needed.</p> <p><strong>There are three basic forms of gum surgery:</strong></p> <ol> <li>Gingival Flap Surgery - Recommended when antibiotics and root planning and scaling have been unsuccessful at treating gum disease. It involves cutting a flap into the gum, pulling the gum back so that the specialist can deep clean the root removing plaque, tartar and biofilm, then the gum flap is sewn back into place.</li> <li>Gingivectomy - Done to remove excess gum tissue covering the teeth. It is used to treat gingivitis, but also used cosmetically to improve a smile. When used to address gum disease, the resulting reshaping allows better access to the gum line around the tooth for cleaning.</li> <li>Gingivoplasty - A process whereby healthy gum tissue is reshaped around a tooth to either improve appearance or to cover up an exposed root. Sometimes this is done using nearby gum tissue, and sometimes it is done using a graft from the roof of the patient&rsquo;s mouth.</li> </ol> <p>The most important aspect of gum surgery is your post-surgical, at-home care. You will not be allowed to floss or brush your gum line until after your gums have properly healed. You will have to rinse your mouth with an antibacterial mouthwash. You will also have to eat soft foods until your gums are able to withstand the pressures of more solid foods.</p> <p>Gum disease can recur, so after your surgery it is important to practice proper oral hygiene or you might find yourself back in the specialist&rsquo;s office.</p>', 'Name': 'Gum Surgery', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D3410', 'D3421', 'D3425'], 'Text': '<p>Root end surgery is also known as an apicoectomy. These procedures are done typically when a tooth on which a root canal has already been performed becomes re-infected. It is done to prevent the tooth from being pulled out.</p> <p>All teeth have roots and those roots have an entrance for the nerves and blood vessels that feed them. That entrance is referred to as the &ldquo;apex&rdquo;. After a root canal has been done on a tooth, the apex remains. That portion of the root can get re-infected - when that happens, the apex is removed along with any infected tissue surrounding it. As the apex can be tiny, the surgery is performed using a surgical microscope and is also called endodontic microsurgery.</p> <p>It is not a long procedure - lasting anywhere from 30 to 90 minutes depending on which tooth is involved - molars tend to be more complex and require more time. Dentists are trained to perform apicoectomies but usually they will refer you to an endodontist who are specialized in root canal and root end treatments. Oftentimes, a second root canal treatment is considered before moving to a root end treatment. If retreatment is not possible or unsuccessful, only then will the apicoectomy be performed.</p> <p>Root end treatments are not done in the same way as a root canal. The procedure involves an incision in the gum. The gum is lifted away and the endodontist drills into the bone to access the root. If at this point the tooth shows signs of cracking or breaking, then the dentist may choose to discontinue the treatment and simply extract the tooth. If the root end treatment continues, the dentist will clean and then seal the end of the tooth&rsquo;s canal.</p> <p>After the surgery you will feel some numbness in the area until it is fully healed. You will also be advised to avoid flossing and hard-brushing as well as hard foods until your gum has completed healing. Over-the-counter pain medication and cold compresses will be recommended for the pain. Between 2-7 days after the surgery, you may need to have your stitches removed unless they use soluble stitches, which will dissolve on their own. Typically, full healing is done within 14 days.</p>', 'Name': 'Root End Surgery', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': 'dentistry/periodontal/grafting', 'Codes': ['D4263', 'D4264', 'D6103', 'D6104'], 'Text': '<p><strong>What is a bone graft?</strong></p> <p>A bone graft is when your dentist takes bone from another part of your body, a human donor or an animal and attaches it to your bone to encourage new bone growth. Sometimes a synthetic material that mimics bone is used instead.</p> <p><strong>How is the procedure done?</strong></p> <p>The procedure is considered dental surgery. Your dentist will pull back the section of your gum covering the bone that requires reinforcement. The new bone is attached to that section and the gum put back into place. The graft will encourage the adjacent bone to grow and the new bone will eventually replace the graft. Sometimes dentists use a collagen membrane to help with the regrowth - regardless of what is used the materials will be reabsorbed by the body.</p> <p><strong>Are there different types of bone grafts?</strong></p> <p>There are four types of bone grafts available.</p> <ul> <li>An Autograft: A bone from your own body such as from your hip is grafted onto your jaw.</li> <li>Allograft: Bone taken from a human donor is used in the graft,</li> <li>Xenograft: An animal bone, usually from a cow, is used in the graft.</li> <li>Alloplast: A synthetic mixture of calcium, phosphorous and hydroxylapatite that mimics bone is used for grafting.</li> </ul> <p>Your dentist will be able to recommend the kind of graft that best suits your situation.</p> <p><strong>When is a bone graft needed?</strong></p> <p>Bone grafting is required when you have suffered bone loss in your jaw. Bone loss is the result of advanced gum disease - a condition otherwise known as periodontitis or periodontal disease.</p> <p>If you suffer from periodontitis and your teeth have either begun to move or have already fallen out, then one of the first steps to preventing further damage and stabilizing your remaining teeth is to encourage more bone growth. In such cases, dentists and/or gum specialists (periodontists) might advise you to undergo a bone graft.</p> <p><strong>Does gum disease lead to bone loss?</strong></p> <p>The short answer is, yes. If you have untreated gum disease it will eventually lead to periodontitis, which is a chronic bacterial infection of the gums and the bones of your jaw. Not only will gum disease result in tooth and gum tissue loss, but can also lead to the loss of bone in your jaw.</p> <p><strong>What causes gum disease?</strong></p> <p>Poor oral hygiene is the cause of gum disease, making it an entirely preventable condition. Before gum disease you will experience gingivitis - an inflammation and tenderness in your gums that will cause them to bleed easily. Unchecked gingivitis will lead to gum disease and eventually periodontitis. Once it reaches the periodontitis stage, the infection is already breaking down the bone and tissues that hold your teeth to your jaw. In advanced cases teeth will fall out.</p>', 'Name': 'Bone Graft', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': 'https://www.youtube.com/embed/fnpeLCIy0Ks', 'Codes': ['D6011', 'D6040', 'D6050', '6114.1', '6114.3', 'D6114.2', '6115.1', '6115.2', 'D6115.3', 'D6053.1', 'D6053.2', 'D6053.3'], 'Text': '<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1laa5u7s7v53hvj/AAAR0or9EPeZOg_lPoU0sg6Oa?dl=0&preview=FullImplantsGuide.pdf" target="_blank">Dental Implant</a>', 'Name': 'Dental Implant', 'VideoType': 'youtube', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': 'dentistry/decay/inlay_onlay', 'Codes': ['D2542', 'D2543', 'D2544', 'D2642', 'D2643', 'D2644', 'D2662', 'D2663', 'D2664'], 'Text': '<p>Similar to an inlay, a dental onlay is used to strengthen a damaged or weakened tooth. Whereas inlays are used in the center of a hollowed out tooth, dental inlays are used for both the inside and outside areas of a tooth as well as on the points. They are often referred to as a partial crown and they are less expensive than a full crown.</p> <p>An onlay can be made of several materials including composite resins, gold, silver (amalgam) and porcelain. Composite and porcelain onlays are the most natural-looking as they can be closely color-matched to your natural teeth, however, composites are not as durable as porcelain or a metal and porcelain is quite expensive. Gold is the most durable metal you can use, but also the most expensive and least widely used today. Silver amalgam is another very good option but because of its dark coloring, it is not recommended when the onlay will be visible.</p> <p><strong>An onlay will be recommended when:</strong></p> <ul> <li>The damaged tooth cannot be repaired by a simple filling, but is not damaged enough to require a root canal or crown</li> <li>The tooth is decayed beyond the reparative properties of a filling and requires a more severe to deep fix to repair the decay</li> </ul> <p>To create an onlay, your dentist will have to drill to remove the damaged part of your tooth, clean it properly and file it down if necessary to prepare it to stick to the onlay materials. An impression will then be taken and a customized onlay will be made to fit perfectly onto the tooth. If your dentist is equipped to make inlays and onlays in their office, then you might be able to have the procedure done on the same day. However, if they have to send it off to a lab to be made, then you might have to go back for a second visit. If that is the case, then your dentist will install a temporary onlay until the final one is ready. The final step is to smooth and polish the onlay so that it feels right in your mouth.</p>', 'Name': 'Onlay', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D9610.1', 'D9610.2'], 'Text': '<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1laa5u7s7v53hvj/AAAR0or9EPeZOg_lPoU0sg6Oa?dl=0&preview=BotoxGuide.pdf" target="_blank">Botox Guide</a>', 'Name': 'Neruotoxin Injectables', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D9610.3'], 'Text': '<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1laa5u7s7v53hvj/AAAR0or9EPeZOg_lPoU0sg6Oa?dl=0&preview=FillerGuide.pdf" target="_blank">Dermal Filler</a>', 'Name': 'Dermal Filler', 'VideoEnabled': 'false'}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D8090.1', 'D8040.1', 'D8040.2', 'D8680.1'], 'Text': '<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1laa5u7s7v53hvj/AAAR0or9EPeZOg_lPoU0sg6Oa?dl=0&preview=OrthoGuide.pdf" target="_blank">Ortho Guide</a>', 'Name': 'Orthodontics', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D4273', 'D4283', 'D4270.1', 'D4270.2', 'D4279.3'], 'Text': '<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1laa5u7s7v53hvj/AAAR0or9EPeZOg_lPoU0sg6Oa?dl=0&preview=RecessionGuide.pdf" target="_blank">Recession Guide</a>', 'Name': 'Recession', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D5211', 'D5212', 'D5213', 'D5214', 'D6058.2', 'D6058', 'D6010'], 'Text': '<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1laa5u7s7v53hvj/AAAR0or9EPeZOg_lPoU0sg6Oa?dl=0&preview=SingleImplantGuide.pdf" target="_blank">Simple Implant Guide</a>', 'Name': 'Simple Implant', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D5130', 'D5140', 'D5110', 'D5120'], 'Text': '<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1laa5u7s7v53hvj/AAAR0or9EPeZOg_lPoU0sg6Oa?dl=0&preview=FullImplantsGuide.pdf" target="_blank">Full Implants Guide</a>', 'Name': 'Full Implants', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D2740', '2740.1'], 'Text': '<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1laa5u7s7v53hvj/AAAR0or9EPeZOg_lPoU0sg6Oa?dl=0&preview=DamagedTeethGuide.pdf" target="_blank">Damaged Teeth Guide</a>', 'Name': 'Damaged Teeth', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D9972.1', 'D9972.4'], 'Text': '<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1laa5u7s7v53hvj/AAAR0or9EPeZOg_lPoU0sg6Oa?dl=0&preview=CosmeticGuide.pdf" target="_blank">Cosmetic Guide</a>', 'Name': 'Cosmetic', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D9944'], 'Text': '<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1laa5u7s7v53hvj/AAAR0or9EPeZOg_lPoU0sg6Oa?dl=0&preview=ToothWear.pdf" target="_blank">Tooth Wear</a>', 'Name': 'Nightguard', 'VideoEnabled': False}, {'VideoLink': '', 'Codes': ['D9952'], 'Text': '<a href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/1laa5u7s7v53hvj/AAAR0or9EPeZOg_lPoU0sg6Oa?dl=0&preview=ToothWear.pdf" target="_blank">Tooth Wear</a>', 'Name': 'Occlusal Adjustment - Complete', 'VideoEnabled': False}], 'OfficeId': '17003005', 'document_id': 'ee8Th0iIB5GayV1tTVb2'}
```
